Adding docs for client state interface (#2886)
cosmos/ibc-go: docs/ibc/light-clients/client-state.md

<!--
order: 2
-->

# Implementing the ClientState interface

Learn how to implement the [Client State](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/modules/core/exported/client.go#L36) interface.

### ClientType

> `ClientType` should return a unique string identifier of the light client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ClientType` should return a unique string identifier of the light client. This will be used when generating a client identifier. The format is created as follows: `ClientTypes-{N}` where `{N}` is the unique global nonce associated with a specific client. 
```

Or something like that

### GetLatestHeight

> `GetLatestHeight` should return the latest block height.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GetLatestHeight` should return the latest block height that the client state represents. 
```

### Validate

`Validate` should validate every client state field and should return an error if any value is invalid. The light client

> implementor is in charge of determining which checks are required. See the [tendermint light client implementation](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/modules/light-clients/07-tendermint/client_state.go#L111)

Reviewer: should we link to a commit or a release?

as a reference.

### Status

`Status` must return the status of the client. Only `Active` clients are allowed to process packets. All

> possible Status types can be found [here](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/modules/core/exported/client.go).

Reviewer: ditto on linking to main

> possible Status types can be found [here](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/modules/core/exported/client.go).

Reviewer: It might be useful to explain what `Frozen` and `Expired` mean

Reviewer 2: A bulleted list could be nice, giving a short description of each of the statuses.

Author: I looked around at our usages of the statues, the only one the connection keeper cares about is [`Active`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/fb9dedd706e5835cdd607392320df79fcea7ca7f/modules/core/03-connection/keeper/verify.go#L172).  [`Frozen`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/c86d27fc280cfb342a9e4689b381e5823441b694/modules/light-clients/07-tendermint/proposal_handle.go#L40) is used in our implementation of `CheckSubstituteAndUpdateState`, however this is an interface method and so will look different in custom light clients. I didn't see any usage of `Expired`. My take away is that use of `Frozen`/`Expired` are for internal implementation of the client, but it won't have an impact in the same way `Active` does.

Please let me know if my understanding is incorrect!

Reviewer: Frozen, Expired were previously required in the `CheckSubstituteAndUpdateState` logic that has now been removed. They are useful in determining why a client is not active. A client is `Frozen` if misbehaviour has successfully been submitted against it. Expired clients are those whose latest consensus state update is too old to process a new update given the client state parameters. In the tendermint case, it is specifically in relation to the trusting period, that is, the next update must be before the lastest consensus state time + the trusting period

I think it is still useful to explain these concepts even if core IBC only cares if the status is Active as it'll be useful for UX purposes

Reviewer: Here's some development context on how this function came to be, see issue #98 and this [thread](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/140#discussion_r622372667)z

Reading back, maybe we can mention that this is also used for the Status gRPC route?

### ZeroCustomFields

`ZeroCustomFields` should return a copy of the light client with all client customizable fields with their zero value. It should not mutate the fields of the light client.

> This method is used to [verify upgrades](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/modules/core/02-client/types/proposal.go#L120) and when [scheduling upgrades](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/modules/core/02-client/keeper/proposal.go#L82).

Reviewer: Maybe we can link to documentation on what client upgrades are? We could also add a short note that they are used to upgrade chain specific fields such as chainID, unbonding period. That is, when a chain decides to change its name or some other chain specific field, our light client must go through a specific process to be updated, otherwise regular client updates will break when the chain undergoes an upgrade

### GetTimestampAtHeight

> `GetTimestampAtHeight` must return the timestamp for the consensus state associated with the provided height.

Reviewer: I'd a note of when this is used. This is used for timeouts. To check that a timeout on a packet has passed or not, so we provide the height associated with the proof provided by the relayer

### Initialize

Clients must validate the initial consensus state, and may store any client-specific metadata necessary

> for correct light client operations in the `Initialize` function.

Reviewer: I think this second line could be removed?

Author: to clarify do you mean the line you  commented on or the following line which links to the code where the method gets called?

Reviewer: The line I commented on

`Initialize` gets called when a [client is created](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/modules/core/02-client/keeper/client.go#L32).

### VerifyMembership

`VerifyMembership` must verify the existence of a value at a given CommitmentPath at the specified height.
The caller of this function is expected to construct the full CommitmentPath from a CommitmentPrefix and a standardized

> path (as defined in ICS 24).

Reviewer 2: Agree, but I think we've added a page for Membership/Non-Membership proofs here: https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/docs/.vuepress/config.js#L316

Maybe the specific information could go under that such as CommitmentPath and CommitmentPrefix, explaining what they mean wrt ics24..etc. And then we link to it from here and underneath in `VerifyNonMembership` section also? 

We could then be concise here and just briefly mention that these methods are used for verification of existence and absence proofs of counterparty state using the `ClientState` created on-chain.

This is just a suggestion, interested to hear what others think regarding how this should be laid out, but as @colin-axner mentioned it will likely grow organically as we progress!

> path (as defined in ICS 24).

Author: ah good point @damiannolan, I think it makes sense to link to the proofs page and give the short version here.

> path (as defined in ICS 24).

Reviewer: sounds good to me!

### VerifyNonMembership

`VerifyNonMembership` must verify the absence of a given CommitmentPath at a specified height.
The caller is expected to construct the full CommitmentPath from a CommitmentPrefix and a standardized path (as defined in ICS 24).

### VerifyClientMessage

VerifyClientMessage must verify a ClientMessage. A ClientMessage could be a Header, Misbehaviour, or batch update.
It must handle each type of ClientMessage appropriately. Calls to CheckForMisbehaviour, UpdateState, and UpdateStateOnMisbehaviour
will assume that the content of the ClientMessage has been verified and can be trusted. An error should be returned
if the ClientMessage fails to verify.

### CheckForMisbehaviour

Checks for evidence of a misbehaviour in Header or Misbehaviour type. It assumes the ClientMessage

> has already been verified.

Reviewer 2: Should these be kept under the "Handling Updates" page?

I'm wondering if this section should group `VerifyClientMessage`, `CheckForMisbehaviour`, `UpdateStateOnMisbehaviour` and `UpdateState` together, and mention that they are used for handling updates. 
The "Handling Updates" page  could then detail the entrypoint for updating a client via the msg server and `02-client` and what the expectation of these methods is for the light client implementation.

cc. @colin-axner

Reviewer: Yea I agree! The handling updates code also show the code usage which I think would help make each function more clear

<!--
order: 2
-->

# Implementing the `ClientState` interface

Learn how to implement the [`Client State`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v6.0.0-rc1/modules/core/exported/client.go#L40) interface.

## `ClientType` method

`ClientType` should return a unique string identifier of the light client. This will be used when generating a client identifier.
The format is created as follows: `ClientTypes-{N}` where `{N}` is the unique global nonce associated with a specific client.

## `GetLatestHeight` method

> `GetLatestHeight` should return the latest block height that the client state represents. .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GetLatestHeight` should return the latest block height that the client state represents.
```

## `Validate` method

`Validate` should validate every client state field and should return an error if any value is invalid. The light client
implementor is in charge of determining which checks are required. See the [tendermint light client implementation](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v6.0.0-rc1/modules/light-clients/07-tendermint/types/client_state.go#L101)
as a reference.

## `Status` method

`Status` must return the status of the client. Only `Active` clients are allowed to process packets. All
possible Status types can be found [here](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v6.0.0-rc1/modules/core/exported/client.go#L26-L36).

## `ZeroCustomFields` method

`ZeroCustomFields` should return a copy of the light client with all client customizable fields with their zero value. It should not mutate the fields of the light client.

> This method is used when [scheduling upgrades](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v6.0.0-rc1/modules/core/02-client/keeper/proposal.go#L89). Upgrades are used to upgrade chain specific fields such as chainID and the unbonding period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is used when [scheduling upgrades](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v6.0.0-rc1/modules/core/02-client/keeper/proposal.go#L89). Upgrades are used to upgrade chain specific fields. In the tendermint case, this may be the chainID or the unbonding period.
```

For more information about client upgrades see [the developer guide](../upgrades/developer-guide.md).

## `GetTimestampAtHeight` method

`GetTimestampAtHeight` must return the timestamp for the consensus state associated with the provided height.

> This value is used to facilitate timeouts by checking that a timeout on a packet has passed or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This value is used to facilitate timeouts by checking the packet timeout timestamp against the returned value.
```

<!--
order: 2
-->

# Implementing the `ClientState` interface

> Learn how to implement the [`Client State`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v6.0.0-rc1/modules/core/exported/client.go#L40) interface.

Reviewer 2: I know we usually want to link to a specific tag but linking to v6 seems weird to me because its the old interface. I guess we can update all links when there is a v7 tag available. 

```suggestion
Learn how to implement the [`ClientState`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v6.0.0-rc1/modules/core/exported/client.go#L40) interface.
```

Author: Yeah I think we can update this in the next release.

## `ClientType` method

`ClientType` should return a unique string identifier of the light client. This will be used when generating a client identifier.
The format is created as follows: `ClientType-{N}` where `{N}` is the unique global nonce associated with a specific client.

## `GetLatestHeight` method

`GetLatestHeight` should return the latest block height that the client state represents.

## `Validate` method

`Validate` should validate every client state field and should return an error if any value is invalid. The light client
implementor is in charge of determining which checks are required. See the [tendermint light client implementation](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v6.0.0-rc1/modules/light-clients/07-tendermint/types/client_state.go#L101)
as a reference.

## `Status` method

`Status` must return the status of the client.

* An `Active` status indicates that clients are allowed to process packets.
* A `Frozen` status indicates that a client is not allowed to be used.
* An `Expired` status indicates that a client is not allowed to be used.

> * An `Unknown` status indicates that there was an error in determining the status of a client.

Reviewer 2: nit: I think we normally use `-` for bulleted lists in markdown docs?
